# Read: 27 - Intents, Activities, and SharedPreferences

***
# Android Tasks and the Back Stack
- Task
  - Collection of Activities Arranged in a *Stack- Back Stack*.
  - is a cohesive unit that can move to the "background" when users begin a new task or go to the Home screen. 
  - As in Select and back buttton the new activity is added to the back-stack
  - when the user uses the Back Button the new activity will be finished and popped of the Bac-Stack
  - we understand that (The *Activities* are arranged in the back stack in order ,on which each activity is opened).
- *Activities* can be instantiated multiple times, even from other tasks.
  - The activities in the back stack are never rearranged,  if your app allows users to start a particular activity from more than one activity, a new instance of that activity is created and pushed onto the stack.
  - Managing Tasks - Android manages tasks and the back stack by placing all activities started in succession in the same task and in a "last in, first out" stack.
- Launch modes allow you to define how a new instance of an activity is associated with the current task. 
    - Two ways to define different launch modes: Using manifest file or using intent flags.
    - Manifest file - when declaring an activity in your manifest file, you can specify how the activity should associate with a task using the <activity> element's launchMode attribute.
    - Intent flags - when starting an activity, you can modify the default association of an activity to its task by including flags in the intent that you deliver to startActivity().

- Handling affinities - affinity indicates which task an activity prefers to belong to. Can modify the affinity for any given activity with the taskAffinity attribute of the <activity> element. The taskAffinity attribute takes a string value, which must be unique from the default package name declared in the <manifest> element, because the system uses that name to identify the default task affinity for the app.

- Clearing the back stack - If the user leaves a task for a long time, the system clears the task of all activities except the root activity. When the user returns to the task again, only the root activity is restored. Activity attributes used to modify behavior: alwaysRetainTaskState, clearTaskOnLaunch, and finishOnTaskLaunch.

- Starting a task - set up an activity as the entry point for a task by giving it an intent filter with "android.intent.action.MAIN" as the specified action and "android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" as the specified category. 

***
# Android SharedPreferences 
## Save Key-value Data

- Use the *SharedPreferences* APIs when you have a *relatively* small *Collection* of key-values you'd like *to save*.
  
  -  SharedPreferences *object* : *file containing key-value pairs* and provides simple methods to *read* and *write* them.

  - *Each* SharedPreferences file is *Managed* by the *Framework* and can be *Private* or *Shared*.
  
- We Can *Create* a new *Shared* preference *file* or *access an existing* one by *calling* one of these *methods*:
    - *getSharedPreferences()* — We *use* it *if* we *need multiple* shared preference files *identified* by *name*, which we *specify with* the *first parameter*, We can call it from *any Context* inour app.
  
    - *getPreferences()* — We use this *from an Activity* if We need to use *only one* shared preference file for the activity, *Because* this retrieves a *default* shared preference file that belongs to the activity, *We don't need to supply a name*.
  
- To *write* to a shared preferences file, create a SharedPreferences.Editor by calling edit() on your SharedPreferences. Pass the keys and values you want to write with methods such as putInt() and putString(). Then call apply() or commit() to save the changes. 
  
- To *retrieve* values from a shared preferences file, call methods such as getInt() and getString(), providing the key for the value you want, and optionally a default value to return if the key isn't present. 
***
# Resources 
- [Android Tasks and the Back Stack](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/activities/tasks-and-back-stack).
- [Android SharedPreferences](https://developer.android.com/training/data-storage/shared-preferences).
- [Home](../readme.md)
