# Read: 32 - Serverless and Amplify

- ***Serverless***
  - Is a cloud computing execution model where the cloud provider dynamically manages the allocation and provisioning of servers.
  - **Serverless application** ,runs in stateless compute containers that are event-triggered, ephemeral (may last for one invocation), and fully managed by the cloud provider
- ***Traditional vs. Serverless Architecture***
  - Traditionally - applications have run on servers which you had to patch, update, and continuously look after late nights and early mornings due to all the unimaginable errors that broke your production.
  - Serverless - no longer need to worry about the underlying servers, and can be worked on at anytime.
- Serverless is reduced cost
  - you’re charged for the number of executions
  - the price per MS (millisecond) varies with the amount of memory you require
  -  ***shorter running functions are more adaptable***
  
# AWS Amplify
- set of tools and services that can be used together or on their own
  - helps front-end web and mobile developers build scalable full stack applications
  - powered by AWS.
  - where you Can configure your app backends and connect it in minutes.
  - deploy static web apps in a few clicks.
  - easily manage app content outside the AWS console.
- Amplify supports popular ***Web frameworks***.
  - JavaScript
  - React
  - Angular
  - Vue
  - Next.js  
- ***Mobile*** platforms
  - Android
  - IOS
  - React Native
  - Ionic
  -Flutter.
- Benefits 
  - Configure backends fast
  - Seamlessly connect frontends
  - Deploy in a few clicks, and easily manage content.
- Features and tools 
  - **Develop** - configure backend, connect your app, and integrate UI compenets.
  - **Deliver** - connect repository, configure buildsettings, and deploy your app.
  - **Manage** - invite team members, manage users, and manage content.
- **Use cases** - onboarding flows, real-time collaboration, AI/ML, and targeted campaigns.

# GraphQL Intro (just read the header text, Quick Start, and @model sections)
- GraphQL Transform provides a simple to use abstraction that helps you quickly create backends for your web and mobile applications on AWS.
- GraphQL Transform simplifies the process of developing, deploying, and maintaining GraphQL APIs.
- Define your API using the GraphQL Schema Definition Language (SDL) and can then use automation to transform it into a fully descriptive cloudformation template that implements the spec.
- The transform also provides a framework through which you can define your own transformers as @directives for custom workflows.
