# Read: 31 - Espresso

## Espresso 

**Use Espresso to write concise, beautiful, and reliable Android UI tests.**

- Example 

```@Test
public void greeterSaysHello() {
    onView(withId(R.id.name_field)).perform(typeText("Steve"));
    onView(withId(R.id.greet_button)).perform(click());
    onView(withText("Hello Steve!")).check(matches(isDisplayed()));
}
```

- Target audience

**Espresso is targeted at developers, who believe that automated testing is an integral part of the development lifecycle.**

-  Synchronization Capabilities - The synchronization conditions .
    - The message queue is empty.
    - There are no instances of AsyncTask currently executing a task.
    - All developer-defined idling resources are idle.

- Packages
  - espresso-core - Contains core and basic View matchers, actions, and assertions. See Basics and Recipes.
  - espresso-web - Contains resources for WebView support.
  - espresso-idling-resource - Espresso's mechanism for synchronization with background jobs.
  - espresso-contrib - External contributions that contain DatePicker, RecyclerView and Drawer actions, accessibility checks, and CountingIdlingResource.
  - espresso-intents - Extension to validate and stub intents for hermetic testing.
  - espresso-remote - Location of Espresso's multi-process functionality.
  
## Create UI tests with Espresso Test Recorder

- By Recording a test scenario you can record your interactions with a device and add assertions to verify UI elements of your app.
- create concise and reliable UI tests based on user actions
- test UI interactions and assertions on View elements such as tap and type actions
- Assertions verify the existence or contents of a View element through three main types:
  - text is: Checks the text content of the selected View element
  - exists: Checks that the View element is present in the current View hierarchy visible on the screen
  - does not exist: Checks that the View element is not present in the current View hierarchy
- Firebase Test Lab will test your app in the cloud on hundreds of device configurations
