# Read: 29 - Room
## Overview: Saving data with Room
***Save data in a local database using Room***
**The Room persistence library provides an abstraction layer over SQLite to allow fluent database access while harnessing the full power of SQLite.**
- Room provides the following benefits:
  - Compile-time verification of SQL queries.
  - Convenience annotations that minimize repetitive and error-prone boilerplate code.
  - Streamlined database migration paths.
- Setup
  ```
  dependencies {
    def room_version = "2.3.0"

    implementation "androidx.room:room-runtime:$room_version"
    annotationProcessor "androidx.room:room-compiler:$room_version"

    // optional - RxJava2 support for Room
    implementation "androidx.room:room-rxjava2:$room_version"

    // optional - RxJava3 support for Room
    implementation "androidx.room:room-rxjava3:$room_version"

    // optional - Guava support for Room, including Optional and ListenableFuture
    implementation "androidx.room:room-guava:$room_version"

    // optional - Test helpers
    testImplementation "androidx.room:room-testing:$room_version"

    // optional - Paging 3 Integration
    implementation "androidx.room:room-paging:2.4.0-alpha04"}
    ```
***Primary components***
 - The database class that holds the database and serves as the main access point for the underlying connection to your app's persisted data.

 - Data entities that represent tables in your app's database.
  ```
 @Entity
public class User {
    @PrimaryKey
    public int uid;

    @ColumnInfo(name = "first_name")
    public String firstName;

    @ColumnInfo(name = "last_name")
    public String lastName;
}
 ```

 -  Data access objects (DAOs) that provide methods that your app can use to query, update, insert, and delete data in the database.
  ```
 @Dao
public interface UserDao {
    @Query("SELECT * FROM user")
    List<User> getAll();

    @Query("SELECT * FROM user WHERE uid IN (:userIds)")
    List<User> loadAllByIds(int[] userIds);

    @Query("SELECT * FROM user WHERE first_name LIKE :first AND " +
           "last_name LIKE :last LIMIT 1")
    User findByName(String first, String last);

    @Insert
    void insertAll(User... users);

    @Delete
    void delete(User user);
}
 ```
 ## Defining data using Room entities
 ***Anatomy of an entity***
-  When you use the Room persistence library to store your app's data, you define entities to represent the objects that you want to store. Each entity corresponds to a table in the associated Room database, and each instance of an entity represents a row of data in the corresponding table.
  - Anatomy of an entity
    - Each Room entity can be defined as a class that is annotated with `@Entity`.
    - A Room entity includes fields for each column in the corresponding table in the database, including one or more columns that comprise the primary key.
    - Room uses the class name as the database table name.
  - Define a primary key
    - Each Room entity must define a primary key that uniquely identifies each row in the corresponding database table.
    - The most straightforward way of doing this is to annotate a single column with `@PrimaryKey`.
    - If you need instances of an entity to be uniquely identified by a combination of multiple columns, you can define a composite primary key by listing those columns in the primaryKeys property of `@Entity`.
  - Ignore fields
    - If an entity has fields that you don't want to persist, you can annotate them using `@Ignore`, and can use ignoredColumns for an entity inherits fields from a parent entity.
  - Provide table search support
    - *Room* supports several types of *annotations* that make it easier for you to search for details in your database's tables.
    - *Support* full-text search - add the `@Fts3` or `@Fts4` annotation to a given entity
    - *Index* specific columns - to add indices to an entity, include the indices property within the @Entity annotation, listing the names of the columns that you want to include in the index or composite index.
  - Include AutoValue-based objects 
    -  In Room 2.1.0 and higher, use Java-based immutable value classes, which you annotate using `@AutoValue`, as entities in your app's database.
    - This support is particularly helpful when two instances of an entity are considered to be equal if their columns contain identical values. 
    - With `@AutoValue` as entities, you can annotate the class's abstract methods using `@PrimaryKey`, `@ColumnInfo`, `@Embedded`, and `@Relation`. 
    *When using these annotations, however,include the @CopyAnnotations annotation each time so that Room can interpret the methods' auto-generated implementations properly.*
    
    ## Define relationships between objects
  - *SQLite* is a relational database, so you can specify relationships between entities. 
  - Create embedded objects 
    - `@Embedded` annotation
      - represents an object that you'd like to decompose into its subfields within a table. 
      *You can then query the embedded fields just as you would for other individual columns.*
   - *prefix* property  
    - if an entity has multiple embedded fields of the same type, you can keep each column unique by setting this property.
    
  - *One-to-one relationship* :
    - between two entities is a relationship where each instance of the parent entity corresponds to exactly one instance of the child entity, and Vice-Versa.
    - In order to query the list of users and corresponding libraries, first model the one-to-one relationship between the two entities. 
    - Create a new data class where each instance holds an instance of the parent entity and the corresponding instance of the child entity. 
    -  `@Transaction` annotation :
      - ensure that the whole operation is performed atomically.
      
  - *One-to-many relationship* between two entities is a relationship where each instance of the parent entity corresponds to zero or more instances of the child entity
  **but each instance of the child entity can only correspond to exactly one instance of the parent entity.**
  - *Many-to-many relationship* between two entities is a relationship where each instance of the parent entity corresponds to zero or more instances of the child entity, and vice-versa.
  - *Nested relationships*:
    - if you might need to query a set of three or more tables that are all related to each other. 
